Now in this lesson we are going to look at one of our last optimizations and it's going to be another
hook.
So in the last lesson we learned about our use callback hook.
But in this lesson what we're going to learn about is the use memo hook and use memo is very similar
to use callback in both the format that it's used but also in its conceptualization of when to use it.
The only thing about use memo is that you actually use it when you want to cache the value of a function
that does something complex.
So what I mean by this.
Well as we know with use callback.
Now what use callback does is it essentially wraps a function and memorizes it so that if none of the
dependencies that this function depends on changes we always get back a cached memorized version of
the function whereas use memo is going to be called in a similar manner as use callback.
So let me show you so I have the hook imported from react and what I do is I wrap this function called
Do Something complicated and it might just be something that's computationally expensive like some intense
math for example.
This isn't even that complex.
But imagine if that was something that is very expensive for the browser to do for us to run it every
time it's something that takes a lot of browsers performance power in order to do so in a situation
like this where we see that we are displaying the output of this do something complicated which is some
kind of value.
What happens is that let's say we increase the count.
So this computes that new value every time we increase count which is expected because count 1 is a
dependency inside of the output of this function but what happens when we input count two we see that
our function is still firing which as we learned in the last lesson is because we inline this function
and whenever our component renders this function is getting called and regenerated every single time
now what we want to do is actually not read compute this value every time we re render the component.
This takes a step beyond just memorizing the function.
We actually want to memorize the output of the function because performing the function itself is also
computationally expensive.
So what we do with use memo is we actually are able to get the return value of this function and then
cache that value and use it instead of invoking the function set.
So let's just actually do it.
So in order to use it we're going to wrap this function inside of use memo and just like use callback
we're gonna pass it an array as the second argument that is also the dependencies that it relies on.
Now because we are passing code one inside of this function we do need to make sure that we do keep
count one here as well which means that this function will only ever read compute when the count 1 value
changes.
So now instead of using do something complicated as a function it is simply a value that actually will
be invoked when our javascript evaluates this line twelve when it's going through our code it's gonna
see the user name a hook and it's going to say OK what they want to do is they want me to memorize the
output of this function so that's what it'll do.
It'll compute the value of this function once it has to actually evaluate this value and then whenever
we use it it's just going to use the cash value even when we re render our component.
As long as Count 1 has not changed it's just going to continue to use that memorized value.
You can kind of see this like our selectors in the sense that our selectors also memorize the values
until the prompts going into them have changed.
So now what we'll see is that we have our initial I am computing something complex if we update count
one we are of course going to read fire and regenerate that function value because count one is changed
and count one as we know is a dependency of this do something complicated.
Function call.
So we're going to see it again.
But now whenever I read instantiate and re update the state of my component and re render this component
you'll see that the function doesn't fire.
This is because now this value has been memorized so that's the main difference between when we use
use memo and when we use used callback we want to use use callback when we simply want a memorized function
and we use the use memo when we want a memorized value and we only want to memorize value when the function
itself is generally going to be very computationally expensive.
So hopefully with that you're now equipped with the two new hooks that help us make our code more perform.
And with that you are now fully equipped with a lot of the tools required to understand how to optimize
the performance of your components and your functions inside of your code and always remember the times
to use these tools will always depend on the context of the problem you're trying to solve and you always
want to encounter the optimization problem first before you start actually optimizing your code.